Overview
  
1. The Underlying Idea

    The basic function of the zs4 server is: give client side web application persistent server side storage, 

    there is one root object, called zs4, which is initialized at the first startup of the server.
    When a client connects, the following happens
                    
        the client receives one nested zs4 object, 
        where each object and sub-object. contains the tools (methods) to alter the data content of itself, 
        first on the server side by request, where the reply contains the confirmation data state of the server

        upon receiving the reply from the server, the client automatically updates the client side object tree with the altered data.

        The concept is simple. 

            1. The client modifies its client side data by sending the server a proposed change.
            2. if the change succeeds on the server side, the server replies with the current, resulting state of the server side data.
            3. the client then updates its client side data to match the server side data, which is the source of truth.",
                
2. zs4 Types

    All zs4 objects, arrays and primitive mebers must be constructed and accessed using zs4 methods,
    because this allows the automation of data flow between users and persistent storage.

    The server connects data to persistent storage, databases and files, and sends updates to the clients when the data changes.
    
    The client side connects the user to the data, specifically by connecting input objects like text, select, checkbox and so on
    to primitive members in the zs4 object tree. There are methods for client to create input and output objects in the DOM,
    and to connect these objects to the data in the zs4 object tree, so that when the user interacts with the input objects, 
    cliend request to server confirmation reply can be hidden from the application code. 

3. Data Flow Control

    All Objects, including primitive members, have zs4 utility methods and flag sets, contained in a member called _ (underscore).
    These utility methods and flag sets are used to control the data flow between the client and the server, 
    and to control the behavior of the objects.
    
    Here are some examples of how flags control the data flow:
        1. a flag called "noset" can be set on a primitive member, which means that the client cannot set this value, but the server can set this value.
        2. a flag called "noget" can be set on a primitive member, which means that this value will never be sent to the client.
        3. a flag called "nostore" can be set on a primitive member, which means that this value will not be stored in the database.
        4. a flag called "required" can be set on a primitive member, which means that this value is required to pass automated validation.


    Here are some utility methods available on all objects and primitive members:
        1. a method called "set" can be used to set the value of a primitive member, which will send a request to the server to set this value, and will update the client side data upon receiving the reply from the server.
        2. a method called "get" can be used to get the value of a primitive member or object, the server side state of these are returned
            and updated in connected input elements.

4. How Applications are Built

    A User can build an application by creating a new object of type app via the home page interface. 
    This creates a new app object in the server side apps collection, which is a member of the zs4.type object.
    The server then creates a javascript file ./apps/<appkey>/main.js, where <appkey> is the databasekey of the app object.
    This javascript file is the truth, tracked automatically by git, if zs4 runs in a git repository.

    The structure of the app object looks like this 
    
        "appkey": {
            // these are the members enherited from zs4 object type system, which are used to control the data flow and behavior of the app object.
            "zs4": {
                "head": {
                    "title": "appkey (untitled)",
                    "author": "<creator email>",
                    "description": "Edit ./apps/appkey/main.js to build this app.",
                }
            }

            // these are important members of the app object type, which are used to initialize the app.
            
            code:"function(THIS, window) { ... }", // this is the main function of the app, which is called to initialize the app on the client side. 
            // THIS is the app object itself, and window is the DOM element where the app should render its content.
            // This is executed only wenn the user navigates to the app page from the list display on the home page.
               
            code_executed: false, // (flags nostore | local) this boolean value is set to true when the code is executed on the client side.
            // this is set, which can be used to prevent multiple executions of the code.
            gitstatus: "untracked", // this is the git status of the app's main.js file.
        }
    
    in the zs4 object tree, and then defining a main(THIS, window) function in the code member of the app object.

    The client side zs4 system initializes applications by calling a main(THIS, window) function, which is defined in the code member of the app object.